it's happening to people every single
day for no explained reason and it feels
horrible you wake up and find out your
Instagram account has been disabled it
may be because you're doing a couple of
really simple things you've always been
doing on Instagram or and maybe you are
in violation of Instagram's Community
guidelines and you didn't even realize
it in this episode of build your tribe
I'm going to share with you some really
important things you want to make sure
you're not doing on Instagram if you
want to make sure you're able to keep
your Instagram account
listen for some of us not only does it
feel horrible it's financially
devastating to lose your account I know
I've had mine not disabled but I have
mine hacked once before Oh my gosh
there's a previous video tribe episode
on that let me tell you it's a horrible
horrible feeling so it doesn't matter
whether it's hacked or it's just been
disabled you want to avoid having this
happen at all costs but in this episode
I want to share with you some other
reasons why you want to avoid doing some
of the following things on Instagram and
the first of which is a very popular
methodology to get more engagement and
that is an engagement pod sometimes
referred to as Instagram potting what is
that Instagram potting is when a group
of people sometimes it's friends that
just know each other all agree to be in
one giant Instagram DM group and when
one person posts they send a message to
the group and then everybody in the
group comments likes maybe saves
sometimes they share the post what does
that do it gets you instant engagement
the problem is these have turned into
business opportunities now where you can
someone will offer to have you join an
engagement pod and it's real people
usually who have real accounts usually
and so it feels like it shouldn't be a
problem it's like oh we're all just
agreeing to like each other's posts
what's the big deal well the big deal is
that Instagram is their artificial
intelligence is very aware and they can
see that this is happening and they're
cracking down on it like crazy myself
and my co-host Brock Johnson we own and
operate a Instagram membership program
called insta Club Hub and we we have so
many members who've had this happen
recently even though we tell our members
never do an Instagram uh pod group for
for a number of reasons number one your
account could get banned but number two
it's just inauthentic so you're
portraying to your audience that you're
getting more engagement than you really
are it's like paying people to show up
to your birthday party you know what I'm
saying and it's really unethical when it
comes to influencers who are using these
kinds of groups to boost their
engagement it's it's false advertising
you're pretending that you have
credentials that you don't have you're
pretending that you have influence that
you really don't have
I mean frankly if you have to pay for
engagement what does that say about the
Integrity of your brand and now listen
I'm not making any judgments I have
plenty of friends who've used these
thinking that it was a simple harmless
way to get their account to grow but it
really long term has the ramifications
of hurting your brand next fake
followers listen you may have bought
fake followers a long time ago there's
nothing you can do about it there's no
point in trying to remove them and if
Bots or like fake accounts start
following you and you didn't pay for it
again there's really nothing you can do
about that I wouldn't waste any time
trying to delete those accounts but by
all means do not pay for fake followers
or fake likes first let's talk about
fake followers again I have a real
problem with this because it's just
unethical you're pretending that you
have a certain amount of clout and
influence that you really don't have
number two it's going to hurt your
algorithm in the long run because fake
followers don't usually unless you pay
for it separately uh like and engage and
actually you know have engagement with
your account so in a long time in the
long run those fake followers because
they're not real people they don't
comment they don't like they don't share
your content and ultimately it's going
to give you reduced reach in the long
run now let's talk about fake likes fake
likes are just as bad again it's it's an
it's an ethical decision and while it
might make you feel like you've more
credibility it might make you feel like
oh if people look at this content and
they see you've got so many likes
they're going to think more highly of me
but it's it's really just think about
what it says about your integrity I mean
if you're willing to buy likes and trick
people trick people into thinking that
you have more engagement more that that
particular post is more popular than it
was what does that say about your brand
you as the person who wants to have
integrity and you've got to build trust
to get people to buy right and all those
people are liking your post by the way
it's so easy to spot when someone has it
is so easy to spot all of these things
that's the other thing I have to say to
anyone who's doing any of these
practices it's so obvious to everyone
else no one's going to say anything but
it's so obvious when you get comments
from an engagement pod it's so
ridiculously obvious it's not even funny
they all come in at about the same time
a lot of them are real one sentence and
they even because they are a real person
they might seem like a real comment and
they are a real comment because it's
real people in this engagement pod but
they don't really know each other and
they really don't care about the content
the other person's posting they're just
trying to leave a great comment so that
they'll leave one back so the comments
will be like looking good babe love the
info babe you look fire of fire emojis
um oh this is great advice it's just
like things that nobody would say it's
so dumb and it's so obvious and no one's
going to tell you that they know you're
doing this but they know you're doing
this and it's not a good look you don't
need to do this a real account is going
to see today in 2023 huge fluctuations
in the number of likes on each post so
if you're looking at an account that's
getting about the same number of likes
on every single post it's like
um seven thousand seven thousand six
thousand six thousand seven thousand
that's that's not impossible because
Instagram does this you know even the
most popular posts or popular influencer
is going to see one post with 35 000 and
then the next bus with two thousand and
then one post with 110 000 in the next
bus with 1500 that's a real account
that's how you can tell it's real and
sometimes a post just isn't one that's
going to get a lot of Engagement so
again when you see the same number of
comments on under everything at someone
who's in an engagement pod so there's so
many ways to spot these things but it's
going to hurt your engagement it's going
to hurt your reach and most importantly
it's going to help or it's going to hurt
your brand it's going to damage the
trust that you have with the people who
are following you and today the number
one currency isn't how many followers
you have it isn't how many likes you're
getting on your last post it's how much
trust do you have with your audience and
when you lose trust I mean it's so hard
to build that back it takes years to
build it back buying likes buying
followers paying to be an engagement
group or or paying for engagement in
general is just an unsustainable
strategy buying followers is it's a
short-term strategy that does not lead
to sustainable growth in fact in the
long run it's very likely it's going to
get your account banned even if you were
doing it unintentionally or you didn't
realize however long ago you paid for
the service do whatever you can to turn
those services off because it is a
horrible feeling to wake up and find
that your account has been suspended
again with the community that Brock and
I coach we have every week we have
probably I don't know 10 or 20 of our
students who will reach out to us and
say like what do I do and sometimes it's
you haven't done anything you just wake
up one day and your account has been
suspended without warning you didn't
realize you were in violation of any
Community guideline but you get slapped
with that you know temporary time out
how do you get your account back again I
will link to the episode of build your
tribe to help you get your account back
but this is not a sustainable strategy
because it's you unless you plan to pay
for those things forever but the bottom
line is fake followers an engagement pod
uh fake likes none of those things will
ever result in more sales and for that
reason you must take very seriously the
legal implications there are countless
websites that now Brands can pay for
that will screen and scrape your social
media profile to act actually figure out
if if in fact your followers are real if
your engagement is real if your
followers were bought like what they can
tell what's going on these are paid
services so I'll link to a couple of
those Below in our show notes
um but yeah brands are doing that
because they in recent years have lost
billions brands have lost billions of
dollars to unethical influencers who are
pretending and inflating these numbers
and then charging these astronomical
rates for Brands and then brands are
like wait a second something's up
because this very popular influencer is
not converting and so these additional
websites have popped up that allow them
to pay for a service that actually
scrapes the content it's artificial
intelligence that looks at your account
to figure out if in fact you're engaging
in some of this very misleading conduct
and that is actionable from a legal
standpoint so take this stuff very
seriously I know it's social media and
we shouldn't take it that seriously and
it probably felt so harmless to do these
things but they're very misleading
practices and social media is a big
business so by by misleading your
followers potential sponsors Etc the in
the long run you're just going to hurt
yourself your own credibility and it can
really negatively impact other creators
and this is It's a community right so we
I think when we all agree to have higher
standards we're going to see people
behaving in a way that's more ethical
more transparent more authentic and one
of the ways we do that is just
recognizing that yeah it sucks it sucks
sometimes it maybe you've lost a ton of
followers or your likes have just gone
in the tank we're all in the same boat
so rather than try to cover it up or do
anything that could get you in a whole
heap of trouble legally take the high
road clean things up get rid of those
services and again remember that you
know the way to really build a
sustainable business is by building your
email list so if you haven't done that
like you could anyone could lose their
Instagram account or Tick Tock or
whatever or YouTube any day but you
don't have to worry about losing your
business if you have a an email list
so for that reason I'm going to
recommend the previous episode we did on
you know why it's so important and why
it's so critical that you build your
email list and some great tips on how to
get started doing that hey it is my goal
to be brief to be bright to make it fun
and then be done I hope that I've done
that for you today uh please if you're
watching on YouTube don't forget to like
this video drop me a comment and let me
know if you or anyone you know has ever
had their account suspended and what
happened were they able to get it back
remember that in the description for
this episode I will place a link to
another build your tribe episode where
we provide for you some tips on
hopefully getting that account back but
you know it's never 100 and there's no
customer service number at Instagram if
you struggle with Instagram and you wish
somebody could help you make it much
much easier to get engagement to get
reach and to get real followers I invite
you to check out instaclubhub you can
find the link below again in our
description that allows you to give it a
try you get 14 days for seven dollars it
allows you to binge our best content you
will freaking love it there's nothing
like it on the planet if you're
struggling with Instagram I highly
recommend you check it out Brock and I
would love to have you again thanks for
being here we'll see you next time
[Music]
thank you